Number: 89
Date: 2013-04-10
Title: Version Control
Geekiness: 2
Names: Qi, Suku, Zjing's Bridge
Topics: philosophy, version control, branching
Skip: 0
Illus.0.par: 1
Illus.0.src: cop.jpg
Illus.0.title: A katana is basically 'kill -9' for biological processes.


At precisely 7:07 on the first clear morning of the first
week of spring, the old scribe [[Qi]] awoke to a knocking on
his door.  An abbess waited outside, flanked by two
heavily-armed guards in black and white robes.

Said the abbess: "We have read your account of
[[#88|the burning of Zjing's bridge]], and we judge it to be a
deliberate lie from beginning to end.  The annals are
sacrosanct: by falsifying them, you have forfeited your own
head."

The scribe replied: "What was written, was, and is."

Said the abbess: "Yet the bridge stands undamaged, and all
parties refute your account.  As proof of your willful deceit
I offer these printouts of the various versions of the page
in question, obtained from your own repository."

The scribe said nothing.

Said the abbess: "The first version contains only the text of an
email.  The sender suggests that you author a
case wherein a stubborn monk is corrected by finding himself
halfway across an impassible bridge."

The scribe nodded and replied: "One point oh."

Said the abbess: "The next version gives an elaborate account
of master [[Suku]] and the monk Landhwa.  Here, Suku
corrects the monk by unfastening the planks on
her side of bridge, much as the email suggests."

The scribe nodded again and replied: "One point one."

Said the abbess: "A later version changes the monk to
Wangohan.  Here, Suku releases a basket of trained cobras on
the bridge to slither towards the hapless monk.  This one is
my favorite, for its elegant use of snakes throughout."

The scribe bowed and replied: "One point four."

Said the abbess: "The final version has master Suku reduce
the bridge to ashes.  A most obvious falsehood."

The scribe replied: "One point six."

Said the abbess: "Can you speak a word which will convince
me to let you keep your head?"

The scribe said nothing, but calmly sat at his desk and took
up his keyboard.  Behind him, the guards unsheathed their swords.

- - -

At precisely 7:07 on the first clear morning of the first week
of spring, the old scribe Qi awoke to the chattering of a
magpie in the tree outside his window.  Through the
branches, the cold, charred remains of Zjing's bridge could be
seen.

Said the scribe to the magpie: "One point six point one."

