Series: 1
Number: 2
Date: 2012-08-12
Title: The Applicant
Part: 2
Subtitle: Anantha's Fountain
Geekiness: 1
Names: Aaradhya, Temple of the Morning Brass Gong
Credits: Special thanks to Nick Montfort for spotting a bug in the code!
Illus.0.src: aaradhya.jpg
Illus.0.par: last
Illus.0.align: center

[[Aaradhya]] had travelled north for many days when she came
upon a solemn circle of children gathered by the roadside
outside a ramshackle schoolhouse.  Their nut-brown skin was
the barest shade lighter than her own.  Each child held a
battered old laptop with a simple text screen, white letters
on gray.  On each screen there appeared the same brief
code listing.

"What language is this?" asked Aaradhya, peering over
a boy's shoulder at one of the displays.

"It is BASIC, Madam," answered the boy.  "The
mistress began teaching it only last week."

"The language has changed much since I was your age,"
observed Aaradhya.  "Where are the line numbers?"

"They are not needed, Madam."

"Then how is GOTO used?"

"GOTO is forbidden, Madam.  We are only doing algebra."

"So how did you code Anantha's Fountain?"

The children looked at each other in puzzlement.

"Ah," said Aaradhya.  "No wonder you all have the faces of
oxen yoked to a plow.  When I was a girl it was customary to
end the very first day with Anantha's Fountain.  Here..."
The novice gently took a laptop from one of the girls.
"What is your name?"

"Simbala, Madam."

Aaradhya typed:

<pre>
  10 PRINT "Hello, Simbala!! ";
  20 GOTO 10
  RUN
</pre>

The screen filled with an endless rippling stream of:

<pre>
  Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! He
  llo, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hell
  o, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello,
   Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, S
  imbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Sim
  bala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simba
  la!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala
  !! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!!
   Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! H
  ello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hel
  lo, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello
  , Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello,
  Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Si
  mbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simb
  ala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbal
  a!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!
  ! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!!
  Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! Hello, Simbala!! He
</pre>

As each new line was added to the bottom, the lines above
flowed upward.

"Now each of you try with your own names," said Aaradhya to
the children crowded around, though she needn't have asked;
some were already halfway done typing.  Laptops were passed
from hand to hand and output was compared.  For some names
the diagonal stripes went to the left, for some they went
right, and for some they were so steep as to be nearly
invisible.  For one boy with a particularly long name the
greeting simply repeated in a dull vertical column.
Aaradhya advised him to add another exclamation point -- or
any other characters of his choosing -- and sure enough the
desired pattern emerged.  The others followed suit, and soon
the names were replaced by undulating waves of periods,
dashes, percent-signs and slashes.

The old mistress emerged from the schoolhouse at the sound
of so much chattering.  When she saw what Aaradhya
had taught the children she grabbed a broom and chased the novice
from the grounds.

"Foolish girl!" said the mistress.  "Can you not see that
ours is a poor village?  The only hope these children have
is to learn their trade quickly and well, and not waste time
on idle nonsense."  The mistress raised her broom again, but
Aaradhya whirled around and brandished her walking-stick
high in return.  The old woman backed away.

"On the contrary, Madam Teacher," scowled Aaradhya.  "I have
done you a good service, and someday I will return with a
broom of my own to extract payment from your wrinkled hide.
Have you never seen kittens gamboling with a skein of yarn?
You took a pack of tiger cubs and merely ordered them to
attack a bear. I have made them hunger for the chase."




