Series: 1
Number: 4
Date: 2012-08-26
Title: The Applicant
Part: 4
Geekiness: 1
Subtitle: The Bundle
Names: Aaradhya, Tarun, Bhupendra
Skip: 0

The old man's name was Bhupendra; his grandson was Tarun.

They had no other relatives in the village.  The boy's
father lived in a distant city, working long hours at a
menial job and sending home a little money every week --
although Bhupendra suspected that a good deal of his
son-in-law's salary was wasted on palmyra wine and online
gambling.  Other than a small hovel their chief possession
appeared to be the dust-gray female donkey which the
grandfather now loaded up with rice, bread, dried
vegetables, jugs of water, knives, cook-pots (of various
sizes), rope, kindling, a bolt of heavy cloth, and an
ancient laptop too slow to run even the most stripped-down
window manager.

"Why are you packing so much?" asked Aaradhya, irritated
that the day was fast slipping away.  "You will be in Reechee
and back before half this food can be eaten."

"Perhaps," said the old man, tying another pan to the
immense bundle on the donkey's back.  "In my long life, I
have often found that it is better to over-engineer than the
opposite."

"And the laptop?  The batteries alone are heavier than the
kindling."

"You will be teaching the boy.  You need a computer."

"I doubt it can go a few hours without a charge, much less a
few days."

"Perhaps."

Aaradhya fell silent.  How /was/ she to teach Tarun while
they walked?  In her home town, when dust seized up the
engines of the electrical plants (which happened frequently
in summer, bringing down the power for hours at a time) her
old master cheerfully distributed bundles of paper and pots
of ink, lecturing to his apprentices by lamplight in front
of a slate wall that he wrote upon with chalk.  The nun had
only her voice, which would crack within minutes in the dry
dirty air.  Only a fool travelled with an open mouth on
rural roads.

Yet that paled before a bigger problem.  Aaradhya had been
the youngest of four children and the newest of seven
apprentices.  She had never instructed anyone in anything.
She had no idea where to start.  Beyond Anantha's Fountain
her own lessons were a vague blur.

Meanwhile, grandfather and grandson continued to tie
ever more onto the back of the unprotesting donkey.
It was almost evening before they were underway.

- - -

"Teach," said the old man.

Aaradhya began with the little scraps she remembered
learning at her grandmother's knee.  Stories of the earliest
computers: towering mechanical contrivances of jointed
sandalwood beams rotating on thick axles and strung together
with miles of hemp.  Ivory-inlaid push-pegs drove creaking
AND and NOT gates as big as a full-grown man and twice as
heavy, with the gates in turn stacked in tiers a full
four stories high just to implement a simple multi-bit
adder.  Entire temples were built to house the precious
workings, with a dozen monks perpetually clambering up and
down ladders, oiling, tightening, tuning, repairing, and of
course operating the gargantuan framework.

Then she told of the wondrous Age of Brass, at the dawn of
the Babaj Empire, where programming was done with clockwork
clusters of gears that grew smaller with each passing
generation.  Strange pale men came from the West to learn
this art, augmenting it with their own arcane practices --
such as the use of rubies in the mechanism to overcome
friction-induced wear, and coiled springs to drive the
crankshafts, and the ritual practice of imbibing
stimulant-laced beverages before commencing with a day's
work.

Tarun's grandfather noted the absent expression on the
boy's face.  Scowling, he drew alongside Aaradhya.

"Teach," he repeated.  "Programming, not history."

Aaradhya grimaced.  Her BASIC was out of date; Tarun
probably knew more of the modern form than she did.  Logo?
She had forgotten practically every bit of it.  Anyway the
language could not be taught without the use of a specially
trained turtle.  Her apprenticeship had been in C with a
sprinkling of C++, but the boy was not ready to be thrown
into a swamp teeming with Bus Erros and Segmentation
Violations and special syntaxes for working with L-values.
Java was foremost on her mind these days: it was, after all,
the chosen path of the Temple of the Morning Brass Gong.
Reiterating the fundamentals of the language would help
gather her thoughts, soothe her nerves, prepare her for her
interviews.  She should teach the boy Java.

While walking in the dark?  Ridiculous.

Not to mention that the incessant clanging of the pots on
the donkey's back wasn't helping Aaradhya organize
her thoughts.

"The animal needs watering," said Aaradhya quickly.  "While
we can still see the stream.  I'll begin when we're back on
the road."

This forced them to leave the moonlit road and pick their
way down a treacherous weed-choked gully to the meager
trickle flowing at the bottom.  On the climb back up the
donkey put a foot down into an unexpected burrow-hole,
throwing her off balance.  The huge bundle swayed too far to
one side.  The beast brayed, the harness rolled, then the
bundle went crashing onto the underbrush, pinning the
animal.  By the time they had calmed the donkey the moon had
set.  There was no sensible choice but to make camp for the
night.

Bhupendra sighed and settled his old bones against the
fallen bundle as Aaradhya and Tarun gathered the various
items that had rolled away from it.  Even by starlight
Aaradhya could see the hard gleam in the old man's eye.

"Teach," he commanded.  "No more delays."

Aaradhya took a step towards the old man, about to argue for
a fresh start by daylight, when she slipped on something
smooth and landed fullsquare on a low thorny bush.  The next
word that came out of her mouth was fortunately muffled by
her twisted robes.  Feeling around in the blackness
Aaradya's fingers closed on the handle of the offending
object: an iron skillet that had come loose from the bundle.
It was heavy.  That was when the idea came to her.

The young nun brushed herself off.  Smiling, she advanced
towards the old man and the boy.  They were both on the
ground by the bundle; she loomed above them.  With a wide
stroke Aaradhya brought the iron skillet up high, then down
hard on her target.

The rock was undamaged, but the skillet rang out like a
gong.  Both her fellow travellers jumped in spite of
themselves.  The donkey whined but was tied to a tree and
could not bolt.

"School is in session," said Aaradhya.  "We shall begin
with Objects..."
