Series: 1
Number: 1
Date: 2012-08-05
Title: The Applicant
Part: 1
Subtitle: The Hermit
Geekiness: 2
Names: Aaradhya, Temple of the Morning Brass Gong, Spider Clan, Clan of the Lubricious Serpent


The [[Temple of the Morning Brass Gong]] had sent out word
of several vacant beds in its cluster of little abbeys.  A
popular rumor was that there had been <a href="/case/49">an
unsatisfactory incident involving paper,</a> the result of
which was that a number of monks had been "sacked."  The
term was not slang: at the temple, actual sacks were used.
Once bound in burlap the unfortunates were sent rolling like
logs down the mountainside, where the lucky ones would smash
into pine trees with great force.  The unlucky ones would
miss the pines and sail straight over the edge of the cliff
beyond.

(This was by no means the worst fate that a monk might face.
Initiates were generally more worried about being "fired," a
ritual involving saltpeter, sulphur, charcoal, and a
large cannon.  More painful still was the cost-cutting
measure known as “downsizing,” whereby monks were made to fit into
smaller cots via the removal of several inches of
unnecessary height, proceeding either from the toes upward
or (in the case of management) from the neck downward.  And
no one who worked in the kitchens wished to contemplate the
five-day process involved in getting “canned.”)

- - -

News of the vacancies reached a novice named Aaradhya.  Her
home was in a hot country very far from the temple, a place
of balding hills beaten into submission by a relentless sun.
Dust was ever in the air.  It coated skin and teeth and
circuit-board alike.  Unlike her family Aaradhya had grown
less used to it with each passing day, and after twenty
years of breathing it she had had quite enough.

The temple's website decreed that interviews were indeed
being held, but it provided neither contact information nor
a form for expressing interest.  Curiously, even the
location of the temple was undisclosed.

Aaradhya pored over each page and eventually found a
telephone number rendered in white on a white background.
But the voice who answered said that she'd merely reached the
hermitage that hosted the temple's public site.

"I would be most grateful if you would tell me the
number of the temple itself," said Aaradhya, dipping her
brush in a pot of black ink.  She stirred it to mix
down the thin film of grit.

"Four, oh three," replied the hermit.  Aaradhya copied
the digits and waited for the hermit to
continue, but the other end of the line was silent.

"And may the rest of the number be told?" asked Aaradhya.

"Four oh three," replied the hermit.  Again there was a long
pause, and again the quantity of digits was still
insufficient.  Aaradhya laid down her brush, tapping her
index finger on the table in contemplation.

"Fetch me an emerald the size of a plover's egg," she
commanded.

"Four oh four," replied the hermit, and Aaradhya smiled with
satisfaction, for she knew she had divined his algorithm.

"Surely you are no rootless hermit but a brother of the
[[Spider Clan]]," she said, "for you answer according to
their legendary custom.  Is there a means by which the
temple may be contacted by this humble petitioner?"

"Two hundred times must I answer yes."

"And may your esteemed person impart that means?"

"Two hundred and four times must I answer no."

"Brother hermit, you are indeed a master of webs,
for I am most thoroughly caught in one.  Can you not
offer this poor novice so much as a redirect?"

"Three hundred and one times would I send you back to where
you came from; yet assuredly this is where you should wish
to be," said the hermit.  There was a short beep, then
a perfect electronic silence.

Aaradhya put down her phone.  The page with the hermitage's
number still glowed on her screen.  It said little of
importance, or perhaps so it seemed; for it was written
entirely in enthusiastic hyperbole laced with polysyllabic
buzzwords -- a dialect unique to the thrice-despised Clan of
the Lubricious Serpent.  Aaradhya attempted to decipher some
useful meaning from the passages until her eyes went dry and
her head pounded.  Eventually she sat back in defeat,
contemplating her next move.  The page's tranquil background image
depicted the temple grounds on a misty morning: rising fog
faded elegantly into the white content area.  The sun was
pale and cool.

Indeed, she thought: if this is where I should wish
to be, then this is where I /must/ be.  For it is
as my old C master taught me: the char pointer may
be set to null, but the char array never so.
Telepresence is at best a fragile proxy for /presence./

Thus did Aaradhya bid her family goodbye, sling her bowl on
her back and her jug around her shoulder, and set out for
the distant province where the temple was rumored to lie.

<p style="font-size:88%;
background-color:#fff;color:#fff;">(Yes, yes, you're very
clever.  But obviously I'm not giving you my phone number here.)</p>

###END


where dusty roads ran under the shadow of tamarind trees
whose sweet dates fell for the taking.



