Series: 1
Number: 5
Date: 2012-09-23
Title: The Applicant
Part: 5
Geekiness: 2
Subtitle: The Iron Cookpot
Names: Aaradhya, Tarun, Bhupendra
Skip: 0

The next day dawned bright and sticky-warm.  Bread was shared, the
donkey was watered and re-laden, and the trio set out into
a morning buzzing with insects.

"Imagine," said Aaradhya, "that you have journeyed far from
home and found yourself in a strange village of shopkeepers.
It is evening, and you are hungry.  You learn that the cook
will serve you stew but requires red lentils, curry leaves,
and water in trade; the farmer will give you the lentils but
requires seeds and the loan of an ox..."

In Aaradhya's hypothetical village there were also merchants
who controlled warehouses brimming with all manner of useful
things, items produced by some shopkeepers and needed by
others -- precious spices, planks of sturdy wood, fine saws,
barrels of lamp oil.  The merchants belonged to a respected
guild called the /DAO/.

"Domestic Archive Overseers," explained Aaradhya.  "Their
sole function is to store, manage, and retrieve Valuable
Objects..."

As she spoke Aaradhya untied various odds and ends from the
bundle on the donkey's back, using them as props.  Tarun
listened.  The grandfather walked ahead of them with his
parasol, saying nothing, although sometimes he would nod or
shake his head.

When they stopped for a meal he pulled Aaradhya aside.

"You teach by metaphor."

"It is how my C++ master taught.  He used to say: <i>a
software system is a civilization of objects.</i>"

"Very pretty.  But when the boy interviews for an
apprenticeship they will not ask him to recite proverbs.
He must know how to build things."

Aaradhya waved to the boy, who was feeding the donkey.
/"Tarun,"/ she called.  "You are now the mayor of our little
village.  Wealthy strangers will soon arrive in town to buy
iron cookpots: which of our shopkeepers shall make them?
The carpenter, who already makes pot-handles?  The jeweler,
who already crafts with metal?  The potter, who already
makes pots of clay?"

"None of these, Madam," said Tarun.  "The village needs an
ironmonger."

"Please tell your grandfather why."

"Because no one seeking an iron cookpot will think
to ask a carpenter."

Aaradhya turned to the grandfather, a satisfied smile
playing at the corner of her mouth.  "Much of what he needs
to know already lies within him.  The rest is just syntax."
