Date: 2015-12-08
Title: The Chimera's Egg
Number: 217
Names: Suku
Topics: simplicity, single-responsibility principle
Geekiness: 2
Tagline: In which we have met the enemy.

After seven straight days of bone-chilling rains, soggy
rice cakes and dripping tents, master [[Suku]]'s three
apprentices could no longer remember what it felt like to be
dry or warm.  So one can scarcely imagine their joy when Suku
negotiated lodgings at the house of a great livestock
merchant. The merchant's fire pits were kept burning at all hours,
his larder was stocked with roasted meat and game,
and he had no objections to the four travellers
staying through the winter if they desired.

"My only fee," said the merchant, "is that you assess the
hermitage that maintains my site.  Every feature I request
takes longer than I expect, and the site is riddled with bugs."

"First Apprentice!" said the master to the eldest of her
three companions. "Investigate those monks."

"Where is this hermitage?" asked the First Apprentice.

The livestock merchant pointed out into the rain,
to a cluster of buildings atop a distant hill.

- - -

Soaked from head to toe again, Suku's First Apprentice came
at last to the hermitage.  He was welcomed by the head monk
with a cup of hot wine and the WiFi password.

"Here is one problem," sniffled the First Apprentice
as he browsed their repository.
"Your 'Find Animals' page is astonishingly complex.
Depending on the inputs given, it might query for
animals /available/ for purchase,
animals the user has /already/ purchased,
animals in the /wish-lists/ of the user's friends,
and so on.
In each case, the validations done, the tables queried,
the columns returned, and the information displayed are completely different.
The results table is an incoherent mess."

"Indeed," agreed the head monk. "The code has grown so
convoluted that none of us will touch it sober, and so
fragile that we dare not even add trailing whitespace to a comment.

"Then why not implement several /simple/ screens,
instead of one unfathomable one?" demanded the apprentice.

"You will have to ask the interface designer," said the head monk.
"For we were told to follow her mockups exactly."

"Where may this designer be found?" asked the First Apprentice.

The head monk pointed out into the rain,
to a small hut atop a distant crag.

- - -

Sodden from head to toe once more, Suku's First Apprentice
came to the interface designer's hut.  There he was given clean
robes made from recycled conference tote bags, while his
muddy clothing was washed and dyed a more trendy shade
of crimson.

"At first the 'Find Animals' page /was/ simple," said the
designer. "It was used for exactly one type of search, with
one type of result to display.  Yet whenever a need arose
which involved searching for animals,
I was ordered to shove the capability into the 'Find Animals' page."

"Ordered by whom?" asked the First Apprentice,
punctuating his question with a sneeze.

The interface designer pointed out into the rain,
to the distant valley where the merchant's house lay.

- - -

Sneezing violently and leaving a trail of crimson dye (which
had not had adequate time to set), Suku's First Apprentice
staggered through the gates of the merchant's house and
collapsed in front of fire pit where his fellows were
playing mājan with their host.

Weakly, the First Apprentice asked the merchant if he had
truly insisted that all searching for animals be done
through exactly one screen.

"Indeed," said the merchant with a proud nod.
"I did so to make things easier on the developers.
For obviously /one/ screen is simpler to implement than /several/."
