Date: 2016-01-25
Number: 221
Title: Indigestion
Part: 1
Geekiness: 3
Names: Banzen, Satou
Topics: Java, HTTP, ETag, message digests, hash codes, collisions, assumptions
Tagline: In which we are too trusting.
Illus.0.src: chocolate.jpg
Illus.0.title: If we took the bones out, it wouldn't be crunchy.

Java master [[Banzen]] was reviewing the code of a web
application when he came across a new HTTP filter authored
by his apprentice [[Satou]].  The old master called her
to his office.

"You have begun including an 'ETag' header with each page
you send," said Banzen to the nun.  "Explain, for I have
not heard of this header."

"The ETag is a hash of the page's contents,"
said Satou with pride, glad to know something her master did not.
"I calculate it just before I return the requested page to the browser."

"What is its purpose?" asked Banzen.

"An efficiency hack," replied Satou.
"If the browser asks for that same page later,
it can include the last ETag with its request,
effectively saying:
/I still possess this content that you sent me earlier./
If the server then determines that a new response would have the same ETag,
it discards the response and answers only:
/Nothing has changed."/

"Ah," said Banzen, squinting at Satou's code.
"I notice that you obtain your 'hash of the page’s contents'
by invoking /hashCode()/ on a byte-array that holds those contents.
Are you certain that this is a good digest value?"

Satou thought a moment.  "The /hashCode()/ method returns a
four-byte int, so the chances of collision should be about
four billion to one.  I believe these are acceptable odds."

The Java master congratulated his apprentice on her reasoning
and bade her wait a few minutes while he fetched a suitable reward.
Banzen returned with a box of assorted chocolates.

"Take one," he said.

The chocolates were indistinguishable, but they were laid out in neat
rows and columns with a legend on the lid of the box.  Satou found
a square labeled /Cherry/ and popped the corresponding
chocolate in her mouth.

Her expression changed from delight to confusion to horror, but
she was too late to stop herself from swallowing the confection.

"That... wasn't cherry..." she said, her pale face growing much paler.

"Of course not!" laughed Banzen.
"‘Cherry’ is only the name of the /square/ it was in.
The /contents/ of the chocolate are anyone's guess.  Here," he
said, moving a different chocolate to the vacated square.
"If you liked that, have another."
