Date: 2014-04-13
Number: 140
Title: Heartbleed
Geekiness: 2
Names: Bawan
Topics: bugs, Heartbleed Bug, security, open source, taint-checking, trust
Illus.0.src: heartbleed.jpg
Illus.0.title: I have some sympathy for the developer: this bug is so epic they gave it a website and ITS OWN LOGO.  Even 'goto-fail' doesn't have a logo!
Illus.0.style: padding-right: 100px
Credits: Many thanks to Herb Warren for catching a textual error! 

A novice asked of master [[Bawan]]: "Say something about the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heartbleed_bug">Heartbleed Bug</a>."

Said Bawan: "Chiuyin, the Governor's treasurer, is blind as an
earthworm.  A thief may give him a coin of tin, claim that
it is silver and receive change.  When the treasury is empty,
which man is the villain?
Speak right and I will spare you all blows for one week.
Speak wrong and my staff will fly!"

The novice thought: <i>if I say the thief, Bawan will surely
strike me, for it is the treasurer who doles out the coins.  But
if I say the treasurer he will also strike me, for it is the
thief who takes advantage of the situation.</i>

When the pause grew too long, Bawan raised his staff high.
Suddenly enlightened, the novice cried out:
"The Governor! For who else made this blind man his
treasurer?"

Bawan lowered his staff. "And who is the Governor?"

Said the novice: "All who might have cried out 'this man is blind!'
but failed to notice, or even to examine him."

Bawan nodded.  "This is the first lesson.  Too easily we
praise Open Source, saying smugly to each other, 'under ten
thousand eyeballs, every bug is laid bare'.  Yet when the
ten thousand avert their gaze, they are no more useful than
the blind man.  And now that I have spared you all
blows for one week, stand at ease and tell me: what is the
second lesson?"

Said the novice: "Surely, I have no idea."

Bawan promptly struck the novice's skull with his staff.
The boy fell to the floor, unconscious.

As he stepped over the prone body, Bawan
remarked: "Code as if everyone is the thief."
