Date: 2014-04-05
Number: 139
Title: Feedback
Geekiness: 0
Names: Suku, Temple of the Morning Brass Gong, Temple of the Thrown Coin
Topics: culture fit, geek culture, bias, women in tech, vicious circles
Illus.0.src: Lecture2.jpg
Illus.0.title: In their defense, they were able to buy three new servers last year with all the money they saved on shampoo.

It had been many weeks since master [[Suku]] and her three
novices set out from the [[Temple of the Morning Brass Gong]]
across the great mountains to the west.  The first
warm winds of spring greeted the party as they arrived at
the [[Temple of the Thrown Coin]], whose monks built
social-media-enabled websites for the wealthy merchants of
their province.  Here, Suku would teach her
art of creating maintainable code, while in return the
Thrown Coin would share the secret riches of their
technology stack.

One of the two novice monks in Suku's charge observed that
the monks of the Thrown Coin attended closely to his words,
treating him with the regard one might bestow upon a
visiting dignitary.  But when the same words were spoken by
Suku, the monks of the Thrown Coin either raised their
eyebrows skeptically or lowered their gaze to fiddle with
cellphones and tablets.  They did likewise when the novice
nun spoke.

It was then that the novice monk noticed the almost complete
absence of women from the Temple of the Thrown Coin.  Only a
few nuns could he spy as he cast his eyes around the
lecture-hall.  All appeared to be of low rank, and they asked
no questions.

- - -

At breakfast next morning the novice monk sat next to one
of the senior abbots.

"Why are there so few women in this temple?" asked the
novice monk.

"Because very few girls apply for admittance anymore,"
replied the abbot.

"Why is that?" asked the novice monk.

"Because it is widely known that most girls do not meet
our rigorous standards," replied the abbot.

"Why is that?" asked the novice monk.

"Because productivity requires harmony, and many female
applicants are a poor fit for our culture," replied the
abbot.  "Indeed, most have wasted the time we invested
in them by leaving soon after arriving."

"Why is that?" asked the novice monk.

"Because they were unhappy here, and did not work well
with the monks," replied the abbot.

"Why is that?" asked the novice monk.

"Because like so many great temples, the culture of this
temple is a boy's culture: rough and rude, cruel and crude,
in work and in play," replied the abbot.

"Why is that?" asked the novice monk.

"Because there are so few women in this temple,"
replied the abbot.
