Date: 2015-09-27
Title: Wolf in the Fold
Number: 208
Names: Yíwen, Hwídah
Topics: perfection, elegance, production support, compromise
Geekiness: 2
Tagline: In which there is a brief musical interlude

The nun [[Yíwen]] was tuning a /guqin/ in her quarters when her
roommate [[Hwídah]] returned and slumped into a chair, visibly
defeated.

"Ten thousand pardons for my curiosity," said Yíwen, "but
your brow is more deeply-furrowed than usual.  Have you
again been investigating failures in our production
systems?"

"It is all I seem to do these days," sighed Hwídah. "Although the
cause of this evening's trouble was particularly irksome.
Every choice the developer made is optimal when taken by
itself, yet the combination taken as a whole is disastrous.
Thus the best approach to fixing the problem remains elusive."

"How unfortunate!" said Yíwen.  "Have you informed the
developer of this conundrum, that they might meditate upon
it?"

"There was no need," said Hwídah.  "This miserable soul is she."

- - -

For a while the two sat in silence, as Hwídah took solace in
sweet fragments of melody being plucked out by Yíwen.

"The act of coding shares much with the composition of music,"
observed Hwídah.  "Each note may be perfect in isolation, yet it
cannot be judged by itself.  It must be weighed against the notes
that come before, and the ones that come after, like steps in an
algorithm."

"Yet each must also be weighed against the notes sounded alongside
it, would you not agree?" asked Yíwen.  "Melody and harmony are the
warp and weft of music; for the staff is two-dimensional, and
time is but one axis.  Even in my humble /guqin/, the vibration
of one string causes its fellows to vibrate in sympathy, as
surely as multiple threads may affect each other in an application."

"Would that the harmonies of software were as simple as those of
sound!" said Hwídah.  "For I did 'play' my application many times in
private, and never a note seemed out of place!"

"Simple?" asked Yíwen.  "Have you never heard of the Twelfth Root?"

- - -

"Long ago," said Yiwen, "it was observed that if a string is
plucked along with another string exactly one-half its
length, the two notes sound so similar as to be judged
identical.  It was also observed that if a string is plucked
alongside another which is two-thirds its length, the
resulting harmony is quite pleasing.  The same held true for
many simple ratios, like three-fourths and four-fifths, and
two-fifths, and so on.  Thus did a musical scale take shape
around simple fractions.

"Yet all attempts to produce a perfect scale for the
keyboard were thwarted.  For there are many such fractions,
and many ways to arrange them, yet no matter which tuning
was tried it would always contain some intolerable imperfection.
An interval that sounded exquisite in one key would
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wolf_interval">howl like a wolf</a>
in another.

"Every choice is optimal when taken by itself, yet the
combination is disastrous," murmured Hwídah.  "But then
how is your keyboard tuned?"

"By the best bad compromise of all," said Yíwen.  "There are
twelve notes per octave, so the ratio of each note to the
preceding is /the twelfth root of two/.  For although that
is a most irrational ratio, it ensures that twelve
identical steps upward will bring us exactly one octave
above our starting place.

"In this temperament, /no/ interval is an integer ratio
except the octave: they are all the slightest bit sharp or
flat.  Yet it allows us to transpose songs into any key
without distortion or dissonance.  In this way perfection yields
to pragmatism... for though the harmony of the pasture
is disturbed when we gird it with a fence, to do otherwise
would be to let the wolf in."
