Number: 113
Date: 2013-10-07
Title: Black Sheep
Geekiness: 2
Names: Zjing, Laughing Monkey Clan
Topics: mentoring, improvement, IDEs, copy-paste, code reviews, standards, sample code
Illus.0.src: sheep.jpg
Illus.0.par: 1
Illus.0.title: ewe: Can't spawn child: insufficient RAM.


A senior monk of the [[Laughing Monkey Clan]],
exasperated by the poor quality of his team's code, was
advised to seek the counsel of the nun [[Zjing]] who lived
in the valley below.  He found her tending the Temple's
sheep in the high pasture.

"What have you tried?" asked the nun.

"I have left copies of our Standards and Practices in
every cubicle," said the monk.  "Each morning I send out
links to pertinent software engineering articles, and each
evening I review the day's code.  Still nothing changes.
Each monk commits the same errors as he did the day before,
and the codebase grows ever uglier."

Zjing leaned on her staff and gazed absently into the
distance.

Finally she said: "The shepherd cannot move the flock; only
the sheep can do that."

The senior monk frowned.  "I do not see."

Zjing picked up a small stone and hurled it at a black-faced
ram which stood at the edge of the flock.  The stone struck
the ram's ear, whereupon the animal bleated and trotted
away.  Its neighbors promptly followed, then their
neighbors, and so on, until the entire wooly herd flowed
like sea-foam down the hillside.  Zjing walked with
them.

The senior monk folded his arms and remained on the hilltop,
unconvinced.  "Even if I can correct one monk,
why should the clan follow him if they do not follow me?"

/"Wú,"/ said Zjing, throwing a stone at the fellow.  "It is
not the monks you should be herding, but the code.  Some of
it strides forward with purpose, but most simply follows
what came before.  One monk's IDE generates a poor method
skeleton, a second monk copies the finished method
throughout the class, a third saves the class under a
different name for his own purposes..."

The nun found her way to the black-faced ram and stroked its
bloodied ear.  "Your codebase is the errant sheep," she
called back to the senior monk.  "Correct it, and the
laziness of your monks will prove a great virtue."
