Number: 45
Title: Full Circle
Date: 2012-07-08
Geekiness: 3
Topics: elegance, design patterns
Names: Zjing, Laughing Monkey Clan
Illus.0.par: 4
Illus.0.src: FullCircle-033.jpg
Illus.0.alt: Two nuns watching the fight
Illus.0.title: That's gotta hurt.
Illus.0.caption: Wow... a roundhouse kick right to the copy constructor.

It happened that two monks of the [[Laughing Monkey Clan]]
were quarreling at such volume in the Great Hall that they had
attracted an audience.

"If I wish to know a customer's billing address," said
the first monk, "then /Customer/ should have a
/getBillingAddress/ method, just as it has /getName/! How
can you reject the elegance of my design?"

"Because your method silently loads the address from the
database!" countered the second.  "That is not the Pattern
for Value Objects!  They exist only to contain the data
fetched by a DAO.  You should have an /AddressDAO/ for
querying the Address table, fronted by a Service method.
The billing address should be obtained directly from there."

"But we have lost the Way of Object-Orientation!" shouted the
first.  "Have we come full circle back to the days of C?
Our Value Objects are little more than /structs/, our
stateless DAOs and Services are merely collections of
related functions, and we pass around integer IDs instead of
the objects they represent!  Shall we next run about
on all fours and bay at the moon?"

"The Way of Enterprise Design Patterns is an advancement
towards ideal simplicity, not a regression to the
primitive!" said the second.  "A domain object is not
intended to work as its namesake, any more than a picture of
a shovel is meant to dig a ditch!  You must set aside
appearances and focus on /purpose/!"

"Purpose is /inherent/ in the name chosen!" said the first.
"Domain objects should model the real world!"

The second monk responded with a fist to the first monk's
stomach, doubling him up.  "Tell me," said the second monk,
"in which instance variable did I hit you?"

The first monk leapt forward and boxed his opponent's ears.
"And here I thought those appendages were for listening!"
said the first, as the second staggered aside in pain.
"How fortunate that I set aside appearances and discovered
their true purpose!"  His gloating was cut short by an uppercut
to the jaw.

A young nun -- a novice -- noticed that several of the Java
masters were at the edge of the crowd, silently watching the
proceedings.  She ran to them.

"The two monks will kill each other before long!" said the
novice.  "Why do you not settle their dispute and tell us
which philosophy is superior?"

The masters ignored her.  But the nun [[Zjing]]
heard, and whispered to the novice:

"If I were the monk who prefers the Way of Enterprise Design
Patterns, I would say that you have committed the same error
as the ditch-digger.  There is a question to be settled, but
you have mistaken the purposes of those present."

"Are you saying that the masters intend to conceal the
answer from us?" asked the novice.

/"Wu,"/ said Zjing.  "If I were the monk who prefers the Way
of Object-Orientation, I would call your attention to the
Unwritten Hierarchy, in which /Master/ is but a
subclass of /Student/."
