Date: 2013-09-15
Number: 110
Title: The Trunk
Geekiness: 2
Names: Bawan, Spider Clan, Laughing Monkey Clan, Elephant's Footprint Clan
Topics: complexity, efficiency, value objects, YAGNI
Illus.0.par: 3
Illus.0.src: Trunk.jpg

A certain monk was summoned to the presence of master [[Bawan]]:

"This trunk holds something which must be brought to the
[[Spider Clan]]," said Bawan, pointing to a great wooden box
bound with iron straps.  "Carry it to the abbot unaided and
he will reward you for your pains.  A letter of explanation is
tucked under the latch."

With great difficulty the monk hoisted the trunk upon
his back and set out across the temple grounds to the
domicile of the temple's web developers.  There he
was received by the abbot, who perused the letter
while the exhausted monk waited for his reward.

"This trunk is none of my concern," said the abbot, stuffing
the letter back in place.  "It must be brought to the abbess
of [[Laughing Monkey Clan]].  Carry it there unaided and
your compensation will be most enviable."

The monk did as he was asked, panting with every step as
he crossed the temple grounds to the domicile of the
business logicians.  The abbess resided on the topmost floor.

"This trunk is nothing to do with me," said the abbess, who
refused to let the monk set his burden down.  "It must be
brought to [[Elephant's Footprint Clan]] at once."

"I think I see where this is going," grimaced the monk.  "Perhaps
one of your own monks can carry it?"

"No time, no time!" said the abbess, tucking the letter back
under the latch as she shooed the monk out the door.  "Carry it
there unaided and great riches will await you!"

An hour later the monk staggered into the domicile of the temple's
persistence-tier coders, collapsing in the main hallway with the
trunk still on his back.  The white-haired abbot was summoned.

"Wonderful!" said the old abbot after reading the letter.
The semi-conscious monk heard him open the lid and close it
again.  "Monk, wake up!  As reward for your service you may
keep everything else in the trunk.  Now be off!"

The monk crawled slowly out the door, like a turtle laboring
under a great wooden shell.  It was nighttime when he
reached his own quarters and tipped the trunk off his back.
The top fell open and a hundred iron boxes spilled out.

He opened them one by one. All were empty.

Nothing else remained in the trunk but Bawan's
letter, which the old abbot had tossed back inside.  The
monk unfolded it and read:

       To the abbots of the Three Clans --

       In examining the performance problems of our shopping
       cart system, I discovered that hundreds of actions
       in the webtier are loading the very large and
       complex CatalogInfo object tree from the database.

       In examining the webtier, I discovered that these
       actions are simply passing the unexamined CatalogInfo
       into the sixteen service-tier methods which
       happen to demand it.

       In examining the service tier, I discovered that
       these methods are simply passing the unexamined
       CatalogInfo into four persistence-tier methods
       which happen to demand it.

       In examining the persistence tier, I discovered that
       these methods are simply passing the unexamined
       CatalogInfo into the one utility-tier method
       which happens to demand it.

       In examining that single method, I discovered that
       it does nothing but check the CatalogInfo's
       integer-valued Type property to ensure that it is
       not negative.   I also discovered that this method
       was authored by the young man bearing my trunk.

       Please ensure that he receives my explanation
       in a suitable manner.



