Number: 60
Date: 2012-09-30
Title: The Watchdog
Geekiness: 1
Names: Clan of Iron Bones, Yishi-Shing
Topics: monitoring

The production servers for a key system had been functioning
poorly for many weeks.  After each restart the software
behaved well, but as the days passed performance gradually
slowed to a crawl until the system became unusable.  Worse,
it was common for the application to run out of memory and
crash during the busiest part of the third day, taking with
it all unsaved session data of logged-in users.  Dozens of
angry subscribers began phoning the Temple to register their
dissatisfaction; they had very /specific/ suggestions about
what should be done to the developers.  A team of trained
watchdogs was acquired to safeguard the abbeys.

Unable to reproduce the problem in the development
environment, the Java masters begged for a nightly restart
of the system.  This was granted by a near-unanimous
consensus.  Yishi-Shing, a host master of the
[[Clan of Iron Bones]], remained the lone dissenter.

The restarts were deemed a success: performance remained
good throughout the day, all but the most-violent users were
placated, and the Java masters were able to turn their
attention to more interesting matters.

One night the Java masters and developers awoke to the sound
of frantic barking outside their halls.  In the moonlight a
Temple watchdog could be seen, fur bristling, paws spread
wide as it faced down a group of menacing figures clad all
in black.  The dog was just about to leap when a
whistling sound pierced the air.  The animal
whimpered and fell, its legs snared by the ropes of a thrown
dai-chui.  The black figures scattered into darkness.

From the shadows the host master emerged.  He knelt before
the helpless dog to retrieve the dai-chui that was clearly his own.

The Java masters demanded: "Those men may return
before morning.  Why did you subdue the watchdog?"

Yishi-Shing replied: "His barking disturbed my sleep."


###END

In Banzen's account, the host master's reply was, "Why did you?"



