Date: 2015-05-03
Number: 190
Title: To Make An Omelette
Names: Djishin, Banzen, Mizuh
Topics: encryption, security, cryptography, expertise, specialization
Geekiness: 2
Credits: Inspired by a request from April King.
Illus.0.src: broken.jpg
Illus.0.title: Obviously he wasn't using Secure Shell.
Illus.0.par: 1
Tagline: In which we have egg on our face.

The monk [[Djishin]] was building an application which
managed sensitive information of minor importance.  He
approached master [[Banzen]] and said: "I have spent many
days reading about cryptography.  I am confident that I can
implement a secret-sharing framework."

Banzen said: "In the teachings of master [[Mizuh]], it is said
that a monk will not truly understand cryptography until he
has juggled eight fresh plover's eggs for eight full minutes
over a floor of rough-hewn planks.  Return to your domicile
and practice.  In eight days we will see what you can do."

A week later Djishin returned to Banzen, his head hung low.

The monk said: "Gravity and clumsiness were ever victorious.
Now I have used up my egg rations for the year, and my
bedroom floor is sticky."

Banzen said: "Any idiot can fling objects in the air and
catch them once or twice.  To be a juggler is to understand
the currents of the atmosphere, the limitations of the hand,
the subtle mathematics of motion under gravity.  A juggler
protects the floor as if every egg were a thief."

Djishin considered this.

At length the monk said:  "Risk is proportional to the value
of what is imperiled.  If a thief breaks into my bedroom
because my lock is poor, what does it matter if at worst I
lose my pillow?"

Banzen rapped Djshin on the head with his staff and asked:
"How does your room smell?"

"Of rotten eggs," said Djushin, rubbing his cranium.

Banzen said: "The true problem was not the missed catch, but
the yolk seeping into the floorboards.  If your lock is poor
but your pillow has not been stolen, look under your
bed!  The thief may simply be lying in wait for the day you
return with a jingling purse."


== Qi's commentary

Djishin owes Banzen a breakfast in bed.  Better the monk
knows a year of no eggs than one omelette stuffed with
salmonella.


== Qi's poem

Mizuh was threatened by a learned bandit. //
The bandit wished to know Mizuh's birth-name. //
"My Parents Never Told Me," said Mizuh. //
The bandit left dejected, and Mizuh smiled.
