Date: 2015-11-16
Title: Streams of Consciousness
Number: 214
Names: Kaimu, Banzen
Topics: Java, languages, streams, annotations, lambda expressions, method references, simplicity, complexity, brevity
Geekiness: 3
Tagline: In which we long for a simpler life.

Old master [[Banzen]] and young master [[Kaimu]] were
sitting on a bench overlooking a gorge, watching fishermen
in the creek far below.

- - -

Banzen said: "My apprentices learned of Java Streams this
week.  Now they use Streams everywhere, even when a simple
/for/ loop would be clearer..."

     Kaimu mused: "When I first worked in the temple kitchens, I was
     intrigued by the many blades in the knife blocks, and wished
     to try them all.  But I did not know the difference between
     a fillet-knife and a boning-knife, and ruined many good
     fish."

Banzen continued: "...I would happily teach them when to use
Streams and when to avoid them, but I do not know myself.
Nor have I read any simple wisdom on the subject..."

     Kaimu continued: "In time I grew to understand the
     purpose of each blade by observing how its shape and
     thickness either helped or hindered my task.  In this
     way I mastered not only the knives I used, but ones I
     had never seen.  Error is a poor friend but an
     excellent teacher."

Banzen continued: "...Even if I could correct them today,
tomorrow will only bring another peril.  Last month my clan
began to play with annotations.  How can I conduct code
reviews when essential functionality is migrating from the
methods to the margins?  And now lambda expressions
are springing up throughout the code base..."

     Kaimu continued: "Each new cook brought his own
     utensils, bright and sharp and strange.  My favorite by
     far was a skinning-knife with a gut hook.  I hardly
     ever needed it, but when I did it was exquisitely
     suited to its task."

Banzen continued: "...I do not understand why people
must tinker with a simple language until it becomes so
complex that it is nigh impossible to learn..."

     Kaimu continued: "I still sneak into the kitchens from time to
     time, to marvel at the latest tools by which complex tasks
     are executed with a minimum of effort."

Banzen leaned on his staff. "My only consolation is that
every afternoon I can sit on this bench and contemplate the
happy lives of those whose sole aspiration is to catch and
clean fish."

     Kaimu replied: "Indeed; theirs is a happy lot."
