Date: 2014-01-19
Title: The Prison of Infinite Pleasures
Number: 128
Geekiness: 3
Names: Clan of Iron Bones
Topics: philosophy, distraction, obsession, addiction, simulation, image rendering, fractals, time
Illus.0.src: stairs.jpg
Illus.0.title: Staircases are usually undesirable in raster images, so when no one's looking we bring our skateboards to the top and antialias it.

Winter had come to the Temple in full bitter force, so a
novice of the [[Clan of Iron Bones]] chose to spend his
leave time visiting brethren in Phong Province to the
south.  The monks of that place worked on the planes of a
great render farm, where the directional light was
gloriously warm regardless of the season.

All morning the novice watched as learned brothers scurried
to and fro, planting random number seeds, building
bounding-boxes, or wrapping wire frames around even the
tiniest model so that its pixels would blossom in just the
right places.  Thus were produced succulent scenes of
every shade and hue, to please the tastes of the Imperial Court.

As midday approached, the novice's stomach began to rumble.
Since he required an escort to venture into the temple
proper, the novice approached a pleasant-looking boy
about his own age, who was rigging artificial light
sources above a grove of small quadtrees.  The boy's
clothes were of a rough sturdy linen, yet as testament to the
rigor of his duties the once-solid hues had been worn down
to dithered bits, both knees were covered with
bi-quadratic patches, and the right cuff showed signs of
aliasing.

"Ten thousand pardons," said the novice (feeling all the
more guilty for his own idleness) "but this miserable body
will gnaw at me until I feed it a bowl of rice.  Where is your
master, that I may beg or barter with him?"

"In his chambers, where very soon I must go to bring him his
bowl," said the boy.  "Walk with me as I fetch it and I will
fill your own as well, for at this time of year
our buffers are always full."

The novice accepted a generous helping of rice, then
followed the boy on his errand up the dim spiralling staircase
which was the temple's only hallway.  It was built thus, the
boy explained, to baffle stray photons.

"For glare is ever our enemy," said the boy, pushing open
the door to his master's chamber.  "Although there are greater
perils, as my master could certainly tell you, if he
were here."

The novice followed the boy inside, puzzled.  The high
windowless room was lit only by the diffuse glow of a
monitor on a solitary desk.  The surface of the wide monitor
could not be seen from this angle, but the glassy stare of
the motionless, drooling old man behind it made the novice's
hair stand on end as surely as if his scalp had commanded
every follicle to indicate its normal vector.

The boy slowly set the bowl down in front of his master,
then backed away, taking care to avert his eyes from the
screen.

"He is lost," explained the boy bitterly.  "You see, long
ago he devised an ingenious algorithm for rendering any
part of the /mandelblob/ in the wink of an eye..."

"I have heard of this shape," interrupted the novice,
unable to tear his gaze from the master's visage.  "Rumors,
only... a dread equation so small it may be inscribed on my
little finger, yet describing a fractal sphere of infinite
complexity."

"Not just a sphere," continued the boy.  "A world; a
worm-eaten world, implicit in the laws of number theory.
Permeated by caves within caves within caves, their walls
scarred by gaping chasms, yawning cracks and belching
crevices.  Pick any taffy-twisted tunnel, the smoothest you
like, and if you zoom in far enough you'll find that the
surface wriggles and blisters and boils like putrid flesh on
the cusp of liquescence, sprouting flaccid stalagmites
a-crawl with mushrooms, mushrooms on mushrooms on mushrooms
too tiny to be imagined, until they vanish into their own
asymptotes, erupting on the other side as spores above
spores above spores; and each spore is its own worm-eaten
world as infinitely complex as its progenitor, yet
perversely different from it too...

"My master had barely begun to explore this shape
when by some accident he zoomed too deep into one
particular nanoscopic nodule, one random spore among
billions, and found -- or so he claimed -- that it was a
verisimilitudinous image of <i>our own world.</i> Yes!
Mathematical mountains exactly where /our/ mountains lie,
bursting with needled protuberances like ferns or fir-trees
-- all the same sickly amber hue, like the virtual cumuloids
that hover above, and the simulated shorelines gritty with
picoparticles of amber sand, where amber waves of graininess
stand poised to break but never do; for this is a
<i>three</i>-dimensional world, and for want of fourth
nothing moves, not even the people.  Yes, people!
Monochromatic statues grotesque in face and form, yet human
down to the eyelash-hairs, to the pores in their nostrils,
like caves within caves...

"But in his trembling haste to plumb the depths of this
flyspeck world, my master clicked left instead of right.
His cursor jumped sideways and the crucial coordinates were lost
forever.  I am told his howls of anguish could be heard
in the surrounding hills.  Every monk of the temple rushed to
this chamber, frantic to learn what great disaster had befallen.
And thus did he relate the tale of his discovery.

"The other masters laughed at him, called him a liar or mad.
Even monks of low station shunned him.  So he set out to
clear his name by finding those fateful coordinates again.

"Days became weeks, became months, became years, and now see
what he is reduced to: a prisoner of the Unit Sphere,
forever wandering while going nowhere, held captive by
his own obsession.  For a time, perhaps, he believed he had
stumbled onto some Great Truth of the Universe, a calculable
correspondence between the world of flesh and the one of
figures.  Now I cannot guess what landscapes he wanders, or
why -- nor would I wish to, lest I succumb to some
irresistable fascination and so share his fate.  It is said
that fore-warned is fore-armed, but for me at least... I
fear my mind.  When the real meets the imaginary, their
product is always complex."

The novice edged forward to peer around the edge of the
screen, but the boy stopped him.

"Take your rice and leave this cursed place," said the boy.
"And bring this one truth back to your own temple: that the
Render Farm of Phong Province is no better than a poppy
field, where daily we sow the doom of our people."

"I do not see," said the novice.

"The Emperor has but to name a pleasure -- the thrill of
battle among the stars, the viewing of immodest persons
engaged in lecherous activities -- and we will serve it to
his private chambers in six million pixels of sixteen
million colors at sixty frames a second.  But do not envy
him this.  Instead fear the day that you and I enjoy the
same liberty.  For though we have created an eternity of
wonders here, none of us are given an eternity to explore
them.  How precious is time; and how empty, ultimately, is
any world but our own."
