Date: 2015-06-22
Number: 196
Title: Fee
Names: Suku, Drowning Temple
Topics: teaching, compromise, empathy
Geekiness: 2
Tagline: In which we look at things from a different angle.

Master [[Suku]] and her three apprentices had spent several
sweltering days crossing a weedy marshland, seeking a temple
somewhere near its center. The thickness of the air had long
since stifled any desire for conversation.  For many hours
the only sounds were the buzzing of microdrones and the
group's own squelching footsteps.

Finally they arrived at a rickety structure on stilts, housing
only one abbess and a dozen novices.

"The [[Drowning Temple]] is a poor one in every respect,"
said the abbess.  "Our investments are currently under
water, and the average grade of our novices is well below C
level.  But name your fee for speaking and we'll see what
we can do."

"We trade only in knowledge," said Suku.  "Have your temple
lecture on the first day, and mine will lecture on the
day following."

"This pleases us," said the abbess.

"Then make space for us to sleep on the floor," said Suku.
"Come the morning we will learn from each other."

When the preparations were made, and the last lantern had
been turned down for the night, Suku's eldest apprentice
whispered: "Master, what can these people teach us?"

Suku made a &#x2205; sign on the moldy floorboards,
fell back on her mat, and closed her eyes.

- - -

On the first day, Suku and her apprentices sat patiently
while the novices of the Drowning Temple spoke of their
doings and observations.  As he expected, Suku's eldest
apprentice heard nothing that he did not already know.
Indeed, he found some of the Drowning Temple's coding
practices so completely absurd that he had to mask his
laughter by coughing violently and blaming his outbursts on
a rare pollen allergy.

On the second day, Suku's eldest apprentice spoke for a full
two hours on the superior coding practices of his own
temple.  Yet he found himself so beleaguered by challenges
from the Drowning Temple that he nearly walked out in frustration.
To make matters worse, some of novices of the Drowning
Temple had apparently contracted his unique pollen allergy.

- - -

That night, Suku quietly asked the eldest apprentice what he
had learned from the novices.

The eldest apprentice made the &#x2205; sign of the
empty-set on the moldy floorboards, fell back on his mat,
and closed his eyes.

Suku whacked him on the nose and repeated her question to
the others.

The second apprentice answered, "Our eldest knows how to
chastise, but not how to convince."

The third apprentice answered, "Our eldest wishes to make
others accept, but has failed to first make them reject."

"Excellent," said Suku.  "Some of us have learned, so our
Fee has been paid."

She grabbed the index finger of the eldest apprentice,
saying to him: "You speak to your peers as if they were
empty registers waiting to be filled with the bits of your
wisdom.  Ours may be a dry digital world, but it is built
atop wetware, which is squishy and irrational and prone to
overheating.  You cannot flip a brain from /zero/ to /one/
simply by praising the /one/.  You must start at the /zero/,
extoll its virtues, explore its faults, exhort your
listeners to look beyond it.  To weigh the /zero/ against
the /one/, the listener must have both in mind together.  Only
when they have freely chosen the /one/ will they abandon the
/zero/."

Still holding the index finger of the eldest apprentice, Suku slowly
drew a zero on the floorboards and a one across its center.
[[#85|Considering the symbol anew,]] the eldest was corrected.



