Number: 68
Date: 2012-11-17
Title: Decay
Geekiness: 0
Names: Banzen
Topics: perfection, joy-coding
Illus.0.src: shell.jpg
Illus.0.title: C shell.
Illus.1.src: sandcastle.jpg
Illus.1.title: Well, the apartment's got a *great* ocean view, but the building is not exactly up to code...
Illus.1.align: center
Illus.1.par: last

When [[Banzen]] was a young monk, he grew despondent:

"What is the use of perfecting code?" he cried.  "A module
we write under the cherry blossoms in April will require a
dozen urgent changes in sweltering July.  By September it
will be a tangle of debris, destined to be discarded and
rewritten by someone else before the snows of December
melt!"

Hearing of this, Banzen's master summoned him:

"Your talk is disquieting; leave the monastery at
once.  Outside the gate is a stream that flows
from the mountaintop.  Follow it until you reach the ocean,
and there walk the sands to clear your head.  Do not return
until your eyes can see."

Young Banzen obeyed.  He remained on the shoreline for days,
walking many <i>ri</i> back and forth.  There he spied women
fishing in the tide pools with bamboo rods, and men weaving
nets, and children playing in the sand.

It was the children that drew Banzen's interest the most.
As the morning tide went out they gathered at the margin of
the receding waters, piling bucketfuls of wet sand into huge
mounds while sorting out the shells and pebbles.  With each
hour the water grew more distant, yet still the boys hauled
brine-heavy buckets up the beach to moisten the sand
while the girls set to work on the summits of the piles.  As
the sun swung past its zenith a mighty fortress took shape,
top to bottom, some bits sculpted or patted by hand but most
of it carved with the help of old knives and broken rice
paddles.  The children lined the rooftops with tiny white
shells, used chopsticks to poke out shadowy windows, pressed
thousands of pebbles into the foundations, and dripped wet
sand from their fingertips to make tiny conifers in the
miniature gardens, one by one.  By this time the tide would
be creeping back up the shore.

Whenever Banzen saw the first wave strike the battlements he
always winced; when the first delicate terrace crumbled his
stomach always sank with pity.  Yet the children cheered.
Throughout the late afternoon they watched hand-in-hand as
the sea reclaimed what had been taken from it, until all
that remained of the day's labor was a great undulating
lump of sand dotted with shells.  Then the children would
leave.

But without fail they would gather the next
morning with their buckets and shovels, ready to begin anew.

After a week Banzen returned to his monastery, enlightened.



