Date: 2015-08-30
Title: Night Shift
Number: 204
Names: Banzen, Hwídah
Topics: localtime, UTC, production support, log files
Geekiness: 2
Tagline: In which time is relative.
Illus.0.src: wakeup.jpg
Illus.0.par: last
Illus.0.align: left
Illus.1.src: wakeup-hand.jpg
Illus.1.par: 0
Illus.1.align: right

The small nun [[Hwídah]] was known by all to be master
[[Banzen]]'s preferred choice for investigating production
problems.  Hwídah was not proud of this role, for she
suspected that it was merely [[#152|Banzen's punishment]]
for her overly-curious nature.  The fact that she now spent
hours each day poring over log files did nothing to allay
this suspicion.

"It is most frustrating," she said to Banzen, when he asked
how her latest assignment fared.  "In theory, such a problem
could appear if this batch job did not run at midnight.  Our
cron logs do show that it started four hours later than
scheduled, but for the life of me I cannot explain why, and
I am going cross-eyed from the effort."

Banzen looked at the scrolling text on her monitor.  "Very
well," he said, "perhaps you have suffered enough.  Pick one
hour of the evening, and your investigative duties shall be
limited to that hour."

Hwídah thought a moment.  "The hour starting at nineteen
o'clock," she said.  "For I will be done with dinner and
ready to face all challenges."

Banzen nodded and went out.

- - -

Hwídah's cell phone woke her at two thirty-three that night.
It was Banzen, summoning her to the Temple's Central Command
Courtyard for an on-call assignment.

"Did we not agree on the hour of nineteen only?" she asked
blearily.

"We did," said Banzen.  "And for at least one of our users
it is precisely nineteen thirty-three, local time.  For
another user it is twenty thirty-three, and so on
around the globe.  How unfortunate that you did not specify
your working hour in UTC, for that would have been
unambiguous."

"Indeed," sighed Hwídah.  "But like most sane individuals, I
am not in the habit of thinking in UTC."

"Oh, it is quite easy," said Banzen.  "Just take our local
time and add four hours.  I find it good practice for
looking at the Temple's cron logs, whose timestamps are
written in UTC."
