Date: 2016-01-10
Title: Nothing Really Matters
Number: 219
Names: Wangohan
Topics: Java, annotations, error handling, fail-fast, code reviews, transactions, frameworks
Geekiness: 3
Tagline: In which nothing is wrong.

The Temple used a popular dependency-injection and
transaction-management framework, yet always there were
junior monks who needed to be schooled in its ways.  One
such junior monk had been tasked with creating
a Service interface and its implementation class.
The senior monk [[Wangohan]] was reviewing his code.

"You have placed a /@Transactional/ annotation on a
private method!" snapped Wangohan.  "That will do nothing!
The framework only looks for such annotations on the
implementations of /public interface/ methods!"

The junior monk replied calmly: "I observed no error."

"Your class also has a non-transactional method call a
transactional one /directly/!" continued Wangohan.  "That
too will do nothing!  Transaction management is only
performed by the implementation's /proxy/, not the
implementation itself!"

Again the junior monk replied calmly: "I observed no error."

Wangohan went to see master [[Kaimu]] and told him what had
transpired.  "How can I work with such an idiot?" asked
Wangohan.  "He only believes there is an error if it leaps
up and bites his eyeball."

/"Null,"/ said Kaimu. "The junior monk is no idiot.  For
what he said is true, and yet he means the opposite of what
he said, which is also true.  So he is twice correct, and
concisely so."

"Then master Kaimu must be two times too clever for me,"
replied Wangohan.  "For he clearly just said something, but
what he said was nonsense, which is the opposite of saying
something.  Therefore let me depart before I become
so wise that I surpass the junior monk."

Wangohan bowed mockingly and went out.

Later that day, Kaimu found the junior monk and said to him,
"There is a smoke alarm in Wangohan's quarters.  Disable it.
Then tonight when he is sleeping, set his room on fire."

"Surely Wangohan would find this objectionable,"
said the junior monk.

Kaimu replied calmly: "He will observe no error."
