Title: Goldfish
Number: 29
Date: 2011-03-26
Geekiness: 1
Topics: testing, automated testing
Names: Jinyu, Bawan
Illus.0.par: 3
Illus.0.align: center
Illus.0.src: fish.png

When a novice joins the temple and claims to seek wisdom,
they are advised to find Java master Bawan and ask him: "How
did wily old Madame [[Jinyu]]
become Abbess Over All Clans And Concerns?"

Master [[Bawan]] will then hit the novice on the backside with a
shovel, and instruct them to return the following night and
ask again.  The following night the answer will be the same,
and will conclude with the same order to return,
until the novice is enlightened.

The annals tell us this:

When the Venerable Jinyu was a nun of but five and twenty
years, she and a monk of equal age were approached by
the abbot of their clan.

"The Emperor will be coming to inspect the new VAX
mainframe, and to choose worthy members for various Royal
Committees," said the abbot. "Thus we wish His Excellency to
be impressed with all facets of our temple.  The koi ponds
are lifeless and choked with weeds.  Each of you must take
one pond, clean it well, and ensure that new fish are
present /each morning/ for the Emperor's amusement."

The monk was given the North Pond.  The stagnant green water
was unsuitable for any living thing, so with a yoke and
buckets the monk hauled every last drop away.  Then he
scrubbed the lichen from the stones, pulled the weeds, and
brought bucket after bucket of clean water from the temple
well.  After a week the little pool was teeming with red
and gold carp, bought from the markets with the monk's own
coins.

Meanwhile, the South Pond lay untouched, and young Jinyu was
nowhere to be found.

With the Emperor's visit fast approaching, the abbot sent
for the nun.  When Jinyu was brought before him, he boxed
her ears.  "If the Emperor loses confidence in our temple,
our IT services contract may not be the only thing cut off
prematurely."

Jinyu bowed.  "All will be as ordained, in two days' time."

The following day the abbot went to the North Pond, which
now was flush with white and black carp -- again, purchased
by the monk from the markets in town.  Yet the South Pond's
state was exactly as before.  He found Jinyu resting under a
cypress tree, and boxed her ears again.

Again Jinyu bowed.  "All will be as ordained, tomorrow morning."

The following day, the abbot went once more to the North
Pond, which now was bursting with striped and spotted carp.
Yet the South Pond's state was /worse/ than before: the
lovely garden circling it had been dug up, and standing in
the midst of the ruin was Jinyu and her shovel.

The abbot boxed Jinyu’s ears.  "Account for yourself!" he
demanded.

The nun said nothing, but turned her shovel in a clot
of earth at the edge of the pond.  Behind it was a trench
that Jinyu had dug all the way to the river below the
temple.  With the clot gone, the stagnant water
spilled out of the pond and vanished down the trench.

Then Jinyu turned her shovel at the other end of the pond,
revealing a trench which carried down the waters of
a mountain stream.  The stream rushed into the pond and
out the other side, cleaning the stones and sweeping away
the dead weeds.  In the dark water, flashes of red
and gold could be seen.

- - -

Thus was Jinyu chosen to head the Exalted Subcommittee on
Automated Testing.

And if anyone would dispute this account, let him first seek
out Java master Bawan, and ask the ritual question.

