Date: 2015-01-19
Number: 177
Title: The Tool-Shed
Names: Djishin, Banzen
Topics: reuse, abstraction, APIs, bloat, YAGNI
Geekiness: 2

The monk [[Djishin]] was walking in the forest, when he
came upon a man sawing wood by the edge of the path.

"What are you making, friend?" asked Djishin.

"A tiny tool-shed that I have sorely needed," said the man.
"It will have one hook for my rake, another for my spade,
and a place on the floor for my tin pail."

Djishin wished the man good health and continued on his way.

- - -

The next day Djishin came upon this same man sawing wood.
Many posts had been set into the ground.

"How goes your work today, friend?" asked Djishin.
"That is a wider tool-shed than I'd imagined."

Said the man, "Last night I wondered: what if I buy more
rakes or pails, or wish to store clay pots?  So now it is a
proper garden-shed.  See, here will go a window, with a
shelf to start my seedlings."

Djishin wished the man good health and continued on his way.

- - -

The next day Djishin came upon this same man sawing wood.
Many more posts had been set into the ground, and joists for
a floor, and ceiling beams.

"How goes your work today, friend?" asked Djishin.
"That is a taller garden-shed than I'd imagined."

Said the man, "Last night I thought: if I add
a second storey, it would make a cozy cottage where I could
rest after a hard day's gardening.  See, here will go a ladder,
where I may climb to a loft with a humble bed."

Djishin wished the man good health and continued on his way.

- - -

The next day Djishin came upon this same man sawing wood.
Many more posts had been set into the ground, and ceiling
beams, but the floor had been torn apart.

"How goes your work today, friend?" asked Djishin.
"That is a larger cottage than I'd imagined."

Said the man, "Last night I decided: stairs are better than
a ladder, for under them one may keep clothes and shoes.  In
which case I may as well build a proper house, with a
kitchen and a bathing-room, and give it to my son when he is
grown.  See, here will go a fine stone floor, when I have
money to pay the quarry."

Djishin wished the man good health and continued on his way.

- - -

The next day Djishin came upon this same man sawing wood.
Still more posts had been set into the ground, with
rickety catwalks betwen them.  From the ceiling beams hung
ropes and pulleys.

"How goes your work today, friend?" asked Djishin.
"That is a grander house than I'd imagined."

Said the man, "Last night I realized: my son may someday
wish a wife and family.  So I am putting all in readiness for
an estate of any size, depending on the number of children
he foresees.  See, here are the ramps to carry flagstones
for the floor, and scaffolding he can climb to set the roof
tiles."

Djishin wished the man good health and continued on his way.

- - -

The next day Djishin was at his terminal when master [[Banzen]]
came in.

"How goes your work today, monk?" asked Banzen.
"I expect you need more time to implement this grand email
framework you devised last week."

"No more time," said Djishin, swivelling his monitor to face
the master.  "I have dismantled the bones of my estate, and
built for you this fine tool-shed."
