Number: 161
Date: 2014-09-08
Title: Triangle
Geekiness: 3
Names: Spider Clan, Abbey of Hidden Absurdities
Topics: PHP, comparison, strings, language design, type coercion
Illus.0.src: triangle.jpg
Illus.0.title: Languages that require you to believe absurdities will compel you to implement atrocities.

A new monk of the [[Spider Clan]] had become lost in the
Temple at night.  After several twists and turns he had the
misfortune of passing through a heavy door that locked
behind him with an awful /clack/.

The monk found himself in the middle of a staircase that
spiralled up the inside walls of a hollow tower.  Timidly he
peered over the railing.  Far below lay a courtyard shrouded
in darkness, while far above hung a black sky identical to
the courtyard in every respect.  The monk proceeded to
ascend the stair, hoping to find either an egress or a more
enlightening vantage point.

Every door he passed on his right was locked.  The weary
monk had almost resolved to go back down when he spied a
shaft of light escaping from the cracks of a door ahead.

- - -

The door was labelled "123".
The monk hesitated, then knocked.  There was a sound of
footsteps, then the door swung open to reveal an old woman
holding a lantern aloft.

"Yes? Yes? Yes?" said the nun impatiently.

"A dozen pardons for disturbing you at this late hour," said
the monk, feeling suddenly lightheaded from the long climb.
"But... where am I?"

"The [[Abbey of Hidden Absurdities]]," said the nun, "in the
tower where PHP is written."

"What is so absurd about PHP?" asked the monk.

The old nun laughed.  "I take it you haven't done much work in
that language.  Ask my older sister upstairs that question;
she's sure to help you."  The nun then slammed her door,
locking it with a dreadful /clack/.

The monk sighed and continued up the stairs, around and
around, eventually coming to another door with a light
behind it.

- - -

This door was labelled "456A".
The monk knocked, and was answered by another old woman.

"A dozen pardons for troubling you at this late hour,"
said the monk, "but what is so absurd about PHP?"

The old nun chortled.  "I take it you haven't done much string
processing in that language.  Ask my older sister upstairs
that question; she's sure to help you."  The nun then
slammed her door, locking it with a terrible /clack/.

The monk grumbled and continued up the stairs, around and
around, eventually coming to another door with a light
behind it.

- - -

This door was labelled "78".
The monk knocked, and was answered by another old woman.

"A dozen pardons for intruding at this late hour,"
said the monk, "but what is so absurd about PHP?"

The old nun cackled.  "I take it you haven't done much with the
numerical comparison operators in that language.  Ask my
older sister upstairs that question; she's sure to help
you."  The nun then slammed her door, locking it with a
horrible /clack/.

The monk groaned and continued up the stairs, around and
around, eventually coming to another door with a light
behind it.

- - -

This door was labelled "123".

The monk hesitated, then knocked.  There was a sound of
footsteps, then the door swung open to reveal an old woman
holding a lantern aloft.

"Yes? Yes? Yes?" said the nun impatiently.

"A dozen pardons for disturbing you at this late hour," said
the monk, feeling suddenly lightheaded.  "But... where am I?"
